Comprehend languages no longer translates TELLs in other languages.
Try out Artisans
Test: ?holy day,  ?aura of intolerance, Vampirism, Cannibalism, ?Forgive, ?Divine Perspective
prayer conviction--enhances combat (attack and defence) based on the number of allies of the same faith. Low level prayer that could give high level results in a large party of same religion.
prayer--benediction. Grants bonus to your prime abilitys based on your class nd priest level. Every 5 levels grants a +1 to one ability. If you have 2 primes, then it would grant the first to one, and the second to the other.
prayer malediction--This evil prayer reduces XP earned by 50% for the duration of the prayer. Should have double standard duration.
Condemnation 		1. Opposite of Forgive. This worsens the laws opinions towards a subject, making the law more likely to pass a harsh punishment. 
Heresy 		1. This prayer makes the victim become accused of a crime that has been commited (IE, there must already be SOMEONE wanted for breaking a law). The victim will acquire the warrant of the random crime, being accused of commiting the crime through infernal means. (witchcraft) 
Bone Moon 		1. This moon spell causes all bodies in the room to be animated into skeletons. The first skeleton will be raised as a level 1 skeleton. The second at level 2, the third at level 4, the fourth at level 8, etc.(2^(#-1)). Skeletons are hostile towards all. (unless they can't see you...) All skeletons created by a bone moon become uncreated at the end of the duration (nobody gains XP for their deaths). This is similar to Howler's moon. Unlike a necromancer's animate prayers, the skeletons should be able to attack the caster of this prayer. 	2. I think of this as a Doomsayer prayer...end of the world type stuff. 
Birds Eye 		1. This missionary prayer creates a map of all rooms within 2 moves of the missionary. The map is autoread, and then autodestroyed, allowing a once-per-casting perusal. 
Find Evil/Find Good 		1. These prayers will TRACK the most EVIL/GOOD MOB in the area. To determine most evil/most good, you take the alignment variance from 500, and multiply that times 10*lvl of mob. So players with a moderate alignement will rarely become the target of this prayer...but could. This way, it will be useful in very active coffeemuds to find enemies. 
Divine ally 		1. This prayer group (Holy/Divine/Unholy) summons a being of appropriate nature to assist the cleric. The being will require some sort of payment for each action it does, but should have various skill sets. Minor allies would have thiefness, moderate allies would have fighterness, and Major allies would have Mageness. Each casting requires something from the cleric. For minor it requires 1 gemresource. For moderate it requires 25lb metal resource (must be bundled). For Major, it requires an item of opposing alignment (or any alignment). (For example to summon a major holy ally, you must have an item with an EVIL aura, or EVIL zapper, to sacrifice.) 
Sense Traps 		1. nuff said 
Consecrate Land/Desecrate land/Neutralize land 		1. This prayer makes casting prayers of opposed alignment subject to increased failure chance. The neutral one erases all ROOM enchantments. 
Infuse Holiness/Infuse Unholiness 		1. Makes an item have a good/evil aura AND a evil/good Have_zapper. CAN be done on magical items. DOES NOT affect the level of the item. 
Bless Hearth 		1. grants owner of property HUGE bonuses to combat while in that room. (SHAMAN) 
Lend Prayer 		1. This neutral prayer grants another person the ability to use a level 1-10 prayer designated in the casting. This prayer is temporarily unusable by the cleric, until the end of the LENDING. IE LEND "CURE LIGHT WOUNDS" AEREON would allow Aereon to PRAY CLW as often as desired (Costing AEREON 50 mana, since he doesn't qualify for it.) Each MOB can only be affected by 1 lend at a time, but the priest could lend to multiple people, if desired. 
DEATH'S DOOR 		1. Prevent's a character from dying. ONCE. So you PRAY DD AEREON. Aereon gets reduced to -20 hp. DD goes off, saying that Aereon only gets reduced to -1hp. This only protects from damage effects, not instant kills, such as disintigrate. 
Peace ritual 		1. This prayer takes time to cast (like 5 minutes). It reduces a clan that is as war with the cleric's clan to HOSTILE. While casting this prayer, a CLANTALK to the enemy clan goes off every 30 seconds stating WHO is trying to affect their clan, WHERE exactly they are (room name, area name), and what clan. If the casting cleric is interrupted, in anyway, during the casting of this ritual, it is instantly terminated. (Tells, Gossips, etc shouldn't stop it...but SOCIALS targetting him should. Obviously attacking him will.) 
Haunt room 		1. This wicked prayer will cause a room to be possessed by the SPIRITS of any killed in it. It should have a long duration, and a maximum number of spirits based on the level of the caster (1 per 8 levels of caster sounds good.) SPIRITS created by this spell will be POLTERGEISTS. They will have thiefness, and the ANIMATE ITEM spell. They should be invisible and immune to slash/pierce/blunt. They die instantly if removed from the HAUNTED room. (wave spell..etc.) 
Giganticus 		1. Makes the Templar an enormous version of himself, with some xtra strength 
Position 		1. Shows the walking trail from the casting place to the last place this prayer was cast (or recall) 
Marry/Divorce/Annul 		1. Marriage is described better elsewhere. Annul, if done without a certain amount of time after the wedding, will return all property to previous owners. Divorce always splits 50-50. 
Tithe 		1. Makes it so that whenever the target receives money (through GET or BUY), 10% goes instantly to the caster. 
Revival 		1. Mass Convert, plus bonuses for those who already believe in same god (-int, -wis, +cha, +str) 
Doomspout 		1. Makes the target a raving spouter of doom messages. This is a contageous disease! 
Divine Armament 		1. Causes random bits of level-worthy armor or weapons to appear within one room of the caster. 
Daily Bread 		1. Compells the target shopkeeper or mob/player to hand over any food/water they may have to the caster. 
Create Idol 		1. Creates an idol to the caster's god (or the unholy gods). Not sure what the idol does. 
Faithless 		1. Compells the target to reject their god, if not the same as the caster. 
Clerics - need more skills in general, and more unique skills especially.

Druids meed more Qualifying chants, and more qualifying in general as opposed to gaining. 
Druids of all kinds suffer double duration on all crafting skills -- need a flag

Chants
Acid Rain  May only be cast during rain storm. Turns rain into damage-dealing acid that affects all enemies.  
Hippieness  if a mob, loses clan loyalty.  Is unable to perform common skills.  randomly removes clothing and streaks.
Magenetic Field  If the target of this spell is wearing metallic armor, he/she is held motionless  
Brittle  Causes an item, regardless of condition to become extremely brittle and shatter when used  (detect magic is only way to see -- works by watching for condition change of any kind, then BOOM gone)
Magnetic Earth  Causes the ground to exude a Magnetic field strong enough to pull metal items to the ground  Held Metal items are automatically dropped  MOBs wearing Metal items on torso body are pinned to the ground.  (intelligent mobs will remove metal)
crossbreed to allow mixed races, but both races must be pure.
Find Plant This chant acts like a tack to target a plant
Sense Plants This chant acts like one room plant lore that emotes as you walk around.
Find Gem  target a gem type and it tracks you there
Sense Gems  This chant acts like a one room gems lore that emotes as you walk around.
Find Ore  target a rock/metal type and it tracks you there
Sense Ores  This chant acts like a one room ores lore that emotes as you walk around.
Raging Vegetation (Area) acts like a slow for all opponents. Slows mobs/players trying to walk through area -- makes them stop and hack the vegetation.
Restore Nature causes the ground to absorb all manufactured items (armor/weapons/containers/etc/clothing -- metal/cloth) on the ground in the area!
Wilderness Lore  This skill will tell a Ranger or Barbarian the Type of terrain that he is in (If outdoors), and the type of climate of the area (Cold, Dry). Low level skill, perhaps 12?  

Thieves
Alertness  gives one random description from an item in the room upon entry into that  For example: A thief walks into a room. He gets the room description.  His alertness picks up a 3 items in the room, a wallpaper, a sword, and a coin.  It randomly selects one of those items (the coin) and issues a LOOK COIN command.  
Autosneak  Nuff Said  
Improved stealing/swiping  Burglar to be able to steal from signifigantly higher MOBs  
Mug allows STEAL during a fight.  STEAL should be disabled during a fight, but MUG will accomplish this task during a fight. Similar to Slip Item and Strip Item.  
Countertracking  an active skill that prevents you from being found with the  tracking skill.  
Pick  should LOCK unlocked (but lockable) doors.  
Squatting  Makes an area/room your own for a little while  
Panhandling  allows a mob to set up in a location, and if a successful check is made, causes passing players/mobs to toss a few coins his way.  

Side Kick  Allows the monk an extra attack each round  The extra attack is dealt to a mob that the monk is not currently targetting  
Back hand  Allows the monk an extra attack each round  The extra attack is dealt to a mob that the monk is not currently targetting  Side kick is prerequisite.  
Smoke Signals  Requires a fire. Puffs of smoke produce a message for all in the area who can  read smoke signals (has smoke signal skill). To all others it says you see  puffs of smoke in the air. Totally a role-playing skill. Can't think of  
Scalp Barbarian(5), Templar(10), Assassin (10), or Thief(20)  
Fragmentation   A critical shot enhancement for barbarians that only works with thrown weapons,  does an EXTRA 3 times damage, but destroys the thrown weapon in the process.  
(SWAMP/FOREST/PLAINS/MOUNTAINS/HILLS/DESERT) Tactics  gives bonuses to combat in those terrains. Also allows a Barbarian to  HIDE in that type of terrain if he remains in a room of that type for more  than 2 minutes....  
Improved Throwing  Barbarian does extra damage with hurled items.  
Battering  aka Barbarian lock picking.  
Grab opponent  prevents them from changing range, allows one fewer attack from barbar  
Bodytoss  take a grabbed opponent and chunk him 2 ranges out. Causes damage to him  based on your proficiency.  
Piledrive  follows up a bodytoss with a powerful elbow attack. must have bodytoss to use.  
Gouge blinds opponent for a lot longer than dirt. Harder to use.  
Bodyshield allows you to take a PINNED opponent, and use him as a shield, with him  taking damage instead of you. Works 50% of time if your skill is 100%,  and both enemies are your level, 75% of time if your pinned opponenet  is 20 levels lower than you, or the other attacker is 20 levels lower  than you, and near 100% if both are 20 levels lower than you....  
Weapon Catch  If you are disarmed, it will make a weaponcatch check. If it  succedes, you catch the weapon, losing one attack. Otherwise,  the weapon falls to the ground.  
Shield Block - like dodge, but requires a shield
Improved Shield Defence  grants extra bonuses when using shield.  
AutoBashing  grants an extra BASH attack every round. Mana and Movement for each  autobash.  
Mounted Charge  as the name implies. Barbarian Charge skill applied to mounted  warriors. Paladin skill.  
Tactics  for fighters, gives allies bonus to hit.  
Farshot  Allows the player to shoot at one range increment more than normal maximum range for the ranged weapon.  
Counter Attack  Allows an extra attack after a successful Parry.  

time to re-balance the classes
ability to wish for body parts, ability to wish for lower level items (making level lower)
mutable body parts, with ability to grant powers
Some solution for variable eq on mobs -- use rejuv! 
	But how to edit?! mobs with this kind of eq sort it out when entering a room with player or entered by player.
	But how/when to set the "examine me later" flag?
Blood should act as a cure light wounds to a vampire. that is...if a blood resource is drunk by a vampire, he should regain some hit points.
Don't know how many emotes there are for the kid.. but just as some ideas.. I'd like.. if I drop him.. He cries.. or if anyone else but the parents hold the kid for like.. so long.. it cries for it's parents.. and I think it'd also be cool.. if after a year old.. it not only cries for them.. but cries out, Momma or Dadda . It'd also be cool if the baby emoted stuff like, wiggles their toes. or makes a spit bubble. you know.. those stupid things parents get over excited about. 7  ) Sendasien  Oh Oh! and what about, chews on their finger. holds up a finger. cries for no reason. streches. makes baby noises. Just things.. to always remind the parent they have a baby. The more the baby does.. the more fun!! :D I love you guys!That babies will cry for their fathers too!!Oh oh! What about the babies.. falling asleep ..maybe they coudl even wake up crying.. or.. just.. wake up.. that'd be fun too
Don't know if I ideaed this before or not.. but pregnant women to gain weight?
Why do I need to stand to embroider? I would think it's easier to do it sitting down!
