Can we get some web macros that would list and display the deities?
Room descriptions varying by the time of day.
smokable stuff, mouth position pipes, smokable resources, etc. CARPENTRY add Smokepipe.
mobile parm LEASH=X rooms from start
locksmith BOLTLOCK a lock that can only be unlocked from one direction. Should be pickable from the other direction, just not unlocked with a key.
in the skill MASON, could you add to the desription of archways the type of stone used to make it...A magestic MARBLE archway towers above you? Also, could that description replace the room description of the next room?
putting a change bag into a changebag should combine your notes.
ability to deposit in someone elses bank account
BLACKSMITH chain....works like rope, but heavy and metal.
TAILOR pillow, sheets, blanket, large pillow, cushion
Commonskill Furnishing used to add descriptions to furnitures/doors. Only adds, doesn't subtract or replace. Kinda like engraving, except for furniture type items. 
tread water for water surfaces with water beneath
add floating num to resources -- whether the item will float
barbarian skill improved throwing...does extra damage with hurled items.
Song that does the same thing as Mana Pool. Very bard-like, so it should be a lower level.
common skill PACKAGING...allows you to crate up a bunch of resources into one large unit. must be unpackaged to be used (using the packaging skill to unpack.)
Thief skill ALERTNESS gives one random description from an item in the room upon entry into that room.. For example: A thief walks into a room. He gets the room description. His alertness picks up a 3 items in the room, a wallpaper, a sword, and a coin. It randomly selects one of those items (the coin) and issues a LOOK COIN command.
can the death/morgue strings be specified by the player's deity?
1) Can DEATH allow you to specify room by the god of the player, with a default room for unholy folks?
2) Can MORGUE get a setting 'DEATH' so the body goes with the person
Minimum stat requirements... like +CHA 17 for a requirement for the goddess of beauty type of thing
And minimum gold on hand or item requirements... like +GOLD 2 +ITEM "IRON POT" for the God of Wealth
clan boss deletion automatically votes for a new one
 Programming.html update
	need special section for languages
	need special section for poisons
	need special section for diseases
	need special section for traps
	
//****** next version ********************************************************
GenRaces
GenCharClasses -- zappercheck on quals
racial abilities (abilities tied to the race)
property on abilities that describes what to say when already affected by it.
race specific questions to have during the character creation process -- stored where?
Some solution for variable eq on mobs -- use rejuv!
construct addition--peephole. a window on a door (sortof)
ability to make windows in Construction, Masonry
mason POOL will convert the room into a Water room, with 1 level of underwater added for free
Item Interactivity (Scriptable + socials that require an ITEM target) Tapping your broadsword.  Poking some strange item you found on the critter you just killed.  Licking, sniffing, tasting food.  
Mortgages (bankers lend large amounts of money at interest, start taking away property if you don't pay up)
property to allow ongoing payments to hirelings -- they're permanent, so long as they can suck money from a bank account.
SMTP capability
give rooms maximum weight saveable to db
Bandage common skill Using cloth type materials, the player with this skill can bandage a severely wounded player, raising their HP.  Probably only about 5% HP per pound of cloth or less.  Only let the skill work on people less than about 30% of max HP.  Good for limping back to town for a cleric, but doesn't ruin the need for a cleric.  And it's another use for cloth. 
on your back for wearing backpacks
add energy as a base material type -- update import
autosneak thief skill
zapper check on quests and questchats for eligible players
ability/skill to drain mana from dead bodies
Arrest allowing players to bring bountys to the judge.
Make size important for weapons.  Characters can hold items of (Char Size/2) in one hand, and (2*Char size) in 2 hands.
Arrest idea: banned substances (get, drop, eq, etc)
apply languages to writing as well. Should be simple, right? ha!
Weather affecting movement, flooding, slipping, vision.  Behaviors for floods and fires.
Conquest Area behavior
animate golem spell
Scalp - Barbarian(5), Templar(10), Assassin (10), or Thief(20)
DEPRESSION.  -10 to Attack, Gets hungry faster (10% or so), reduced saves vs Justice (-20%), Reduced chance of pregnancy/fertility.  People who get depressed generally have less enthusiasm about everything (fighting, sex, personal property...it's all pointless anyways) and tend to eat more.  (Thereby getting FAT.)
YAWNS.  if you get too fatigued, you may get this disease, which is contagious.  No effect other than the occassionally yawning.
Obessity.  It doesn't change your WEIGHT, per se.  It creates a unseeable undroppable item of FAT for the duration of the obessity.  You can get rid of Obessity with a cure disease, or by remaining hungry for a good while.  You contract obessity by overeatting.
Alcoholism.  If you drink too much alcohol, you risk gaining this disease.  If you don't drink a glass of alcohol every 3 MUD hours, then you get a -10 to attack and defense.  This penalty is cummulative until you drink alcohol, or you go 5 MUD days without alcohol.  Staying logged off for 5 MUD isn't suffecient....I hope.
jewelmaking should allow you to add jewels to any item
parse out all the commands into classes, so that access can be class based, and time req can be determined
could you expand the languages to include GOBLIN, GIANT, TERRAN (earth), AQUAN (water), IGNAN(fire), and AURIAL(air), and SYLVAN (woodland)?
BOOKS! paper with multiple pages to post on. Add to the papermaking skill. Also add Poster, Banner, and Screen.
TaxCollector MOB Behavior. Designated mob wanders an area and charges taxesbased on the last time that you have paid taxes.
a behavior that watches the weather... in foul or cold weather, items of certain material types would cost more
readables that can load text from a text file
ability to have random formulaic weapons, armor -- do somehow with rejuv field
PUSH should allow you to move something heavy in a direction, IE PUSH RAFT SOUTH
Allergies - nuff said
assemblies mixing item 1 with item 2 produces item 3, these are predefined by archons  
msx support

From Aereon:
masonry tunnel (at about 20 levels above the normal masonry skill) connect 2 rooms in the same area that you own.
Barbarian skills (SWAMP/FOREST/PLAINS/MOUNTAINS/HILLS/DESERT) TACTICS, gives bonuses to combat in those terrains. Also allows a Barbarian to HIDE in that type of terrain if he remains in a room of that type for more than 2 minutes....
resource override parameter allows for resources to APPEAR as different names. For example ResourceOverride(berries smurfberries)
have a setting for no prompt, which also takes out the blank line after the prompt.
blacksmith TRASHCAN. A container that has the property of trashcollection, even in a privately owned property. Anything placed in the trashcan will be destroyed in 30 minutes.
sculpt tub, jacuzzi, roman tub. Blacksmith tub. These are furnitures that hold water and people. 
Barbarian skill Smoke Signals. Requires a fire. puffs of smoke produce a message for all in the area who can read smoke signals (has smoke signal skill). To all others it says you see puffs of smoke in the air. Totally a role-playing skill. Can't think of practical use, other than communication that could be done with a tell....
barbarian skill GUARDTOTEM. Requires 6 scalps of the same race. Prevents creatures of that race from entering into the guarded area.should prevent only 50% of the time, reduced if the level of MOB is greater than Barbar who set the totem
Barbarian skill SCALPING, as discussed on the group....can't think of practical purposes, though....
Barbarian skill WARTOTEM. Requires 3 scalps of the same type of critter. The Barbarian drops the scalps, and does WARTOTEM command. Any critter of that race that fights in the room with the totem suffers penalties to attack and damage.
Spell Think Tank--Collective Mind--Mana Pool: all party members divide the cost of any mana consumption. IE a wizard casts a spell that costs 100 mana while partied with 3 other people, each lose 25 mana.
Barbarians should be able to LEATHERWORK the scalps into SCALP armors. SCALPS should have a value of 3 (1 better than leather, 1 worse than scales). Other than that, all scalps must be of the same critter for the purpose of leathworking a piece of armor.
Corruption - each casting reduces target alignment by target level points. evil prayer
barbarian skill Fragmentation A critical shot enhancement for barbarians that only works with thrown weapons, does an EXTRA 3 times damage, but destroys the thrown weapon in the process. (I am visualizing an axe that slams so hard into it's oponenent that the shaft splits and buries into the enemy as well...)
new common skill FABRICATING....includes any assembly-type work.....cigarettes, computers, cars, robots, sensors, etc.
construct needs to be able to modify door descriptions
we need a property that allows a MOB to use a general skill whenever a player is present. For example, making the lumberjack chop if a player enters a room

From Lee:
Mana batteries - hold x amount of mana....and takes FOREVER to recharge, but character can draw mana out to recharge very quickly, like when in a fight.  Nature of battery prevents more than one in an inventory at a time.  This idea needs some flushing out to keep players from abusing it.
Techno-magic weapons/armor  Weapons would draw mana as ammo from the wielder in order to deal damage.  Laser/ray guns would be prime candidates for this as would something akin to a lightsaber.  Techno magic items would draw mana from the user for each strike and give some sort of effect, ie a spell cast or damage reduction.  Tradeoff:  these would be great weapons/armor, but could quickly deplete the character of mana in a fight.
Open wormhole.  Allows a character to open a wormhole for quick transportation. 
Predict wormhole.  A lower level spell allowing the character to predict the opening of a naturally occuring wormhole.
Cyborgs, andriods, robots.  All basically robots....un-healable MOBS.  Must be repaired via some engineering/mechanic skill to "heal"  cyborgs, being part human part machine, have a healable portion and a non-healable portion.  different gadgets can be incorporated/plugged into these mobs and get destroyed and possibly need replacing as the mob gets damaged.  Definitely ought to be available as player characters.  Trade offs might be that they get a huge number of hit points, but can't heal....and don't get extra hitpoints as they level (except for cyborgs).  Also, possibly might not be able to "repair" themselves.
Tech armors.  Basically, an item than is a rideable version of #5.  The character must be inside/riding the vehicle in order to use.  New opportunities for player classes here (robot pilot, etc.)
Tinkerer player class.  Player class with the ability to create, modify, repair tech items. 
FTL travel.  Some areas in space are so far apart, that they may only be reached via Faster-Than-Light travel of some sort.
Probes.  Space ships may send out probes to investigate planets, other space ships, etc.  Some probes are better than others---might not be blocked by shields, etc---cost more money, higher level, though.
Ability absorbtion prayer.  Allows the casting mage to absorb an ability from a target with a successful strike.  Following restrictions would apply:
    1)  ability absorbed is random 
    2)  ability absorbed might be combat prowess, defense, and/or character attribute 
    3)  if the caster already has the ability, a small, albeit temporary increase to proficiency will result. 
    4)  caster may only have one absorbed ability at a time.  absorbing another replaces the previous absorbed ability.
Song of cadence.  Allows all members in a group to have the same movement rate regardless of encumbrance, strength, movement points.....

Space ships/sailing ships as Locale types
Ship Dealer shopkeepers that use Space Ship templates as basis.
Create Outer Space.
Create Docking areas.
Electronic items which can be activated/deactivated, grant some affect, and use up power
Prop_TechShield that absorbs enormous damage, but like Prop_SpellReflector -- needs reset time.

Wild Mage: 50% of the time, a spell cast will end up higher level, different spell.
Cavelier the knight, law enforcer - mounted bonuses, Mounted Combat 2 Mounted Combat 3 Vigilance....allows the character to be on guard moreso than others...can recover hp, mana, movement at sleeping rates while resting. a skill dealing with a lance like Joust or Mounted Charge.Horsemanship.Dragon Lore.Leadership.Reputation
level and type and wear locations for weaponsmithing and armorsmithing
possible to have NE SE SW NW directions?  Yes, but StdMap and MUDGrinder would get hit hard...
LYING DOWN position?
group formations as an alternative way of determining range
