^XFighter :^? Fighters are brutish weapon masters, skilled in the art of killing.  They may specialize in any weapon type, and learn numerous new fighting techniques as they advance in level.  Fighters receive more hit points and attack bonuses per level than any other class, and are invaluable in a close melee.

^XThief   :^? Thieves are skillful, sly, and devious. They may only use ranged weapons and swords, and may only wear leather armor at best.  However, they come with numerous skills allowing them to survive in the dog-eat-dog world, including swiping and stealing; hiding, peeking, and sneaking; trapping, poisoning, and many others.  Thieves also qualify for many devious fighting abilities.

^XBard    :^? Bards are traveling singers, whose "songs" can possess powerful magic.  They are highly desired group members for the inspiration they bring to their team members, and the great stings they provide to their enemies.  They possess the same weapon and armor restrictions as thieves, but also qualify for many thief skills.

^XCleric  :^? Clerics are the great vassels of the Gods here on Alra-Paran.  Through them the wonders of both good and evil are possible.  Clerics possess great magical abilities in their numerous "prayers".  While their weapon choices are limited to their alignment, they may wear any type of armor.

^XMage    :^? Mages are masters of magic, and wielders of the great elemental powers.  While weak in hit points and in fighting skill, their spells are the most widely prized and powerful of all the classes.  They may not wear any metal or leather armors, or use most weapons.  However, the sting of their magic missiles and the armor of magic they wear makes up for any loss.

^XPaladin :^? Paladins are holy fighters, possessing many of the traits of both Fighters and Clerics, though in less intensity than either class alone.  They may learn Cleric spells at higher levels, and possess numerous fighting techniques.  Their weapons and armor choices are unlimited, but Paladins are restricted to a good alignment.

^XRanger  :^? Rangers are noted primarily for their ability to track their friends and enemies, though their knowledge of the natural world has also given them great magical strength.  They are a cross between the fighter and the druid, gaining druid chants at higher levels, and numerous fighting techniques.
^XDruid   :^? Druids are mystical guardians of the natural world, and the wielders of natures grandest powers.  They may not wear metal or leather armors, and can only use a small set of natural weapons, but their notorious health and magical chants more than make up for this.  Like the natural world, Druids are restricted to a neutral alignment.
