eggs that hatch

ability to save riding status in the database.

Chain Lightning is wrong.  It is actually FORKED Lightning.  Chain Does max damage to first target, then goes to nearest enemy, and does reduced damage, then bounces to next enemy, and does a little less, etc until it is reduced to 0 damage.

Should Greater Globe require Globe in order to gain?  YES.

random monster property class which reads stats from a resource file

Auto quests, quests, questbox (Behavior)

Map skill for bards.  The map "document" expands as the bard travels, but consumes mana 
on each room mapped.

more spells/ideas at http://www.turf.org/helps/

Deadly weak-bridge exit.  If too much weight, you fall and die.

Deadly rope-bridge or narrow ledge exit.  Balance required not to fall and die.  Dex check
for most, or Balance skill for thieves.  

add grid dimensions fields and to the grinder and editor

problems flying during storms

Perhaps a little modification to have the mob act as a better assassin, and the ability to put numbers in front of the direction with doing a GO command.

Mining, Foraging, Etc ought to be able to accept a parameter, so MINE IRON would do mine, but would stop mining if you found something other than IRON, and tell you where you might try looking.

CONTINUAL LIGHT spell

rain/show causes some metals to rust (take minute damage).

Catch cold if you are naked!

Amnesia

Gap exit.  Jump required not to fall in and die.  Strength check for most, Jump
skill available all for help.

Guilds will have the ability to take on a character and make him or her the class sponsored by the 
guild.  These will be special Sub-Classes (derivatives of existing classes).  SubClasses: 
Wild Mage: 50% chance similar (diff) spell is cast (higher level, perhaps)
Assassin: Assassinate skill to auto-kill, lose something else though
Barbarian: Free Berzerk, lower charisma
Priests of specific Gods: bonuses to like spells, lose others
Knights Order: special sword as part of outfit?
Prancers: Dancing bards who get special ability
Illusionist: Illusion spells at 100%, get all of them
Alchemist: brew spells into potions, missile potions, transmute stuff to gold, cloth to metal, etc..
Wizard: must memorize spells from book.  Profficiency check at memorize time (unerring in casting).  No memorizing duplicates.  Mana is consumed at memorize time.

We need more diseases. 
Leprecy: take more physical damage in combat. 
Heart Disease: All actions take 2* movement. 
Lung Disease: Movement is recovered at 1/2 rate. 
Infection: Hitpoints are recovered at 1/2 rate. 

add currents to water. Scratch that, you can simulate currents by the teleport behavior, and a good emoter.

an ability to tell how many HP a MOB has

ability to resist WHOMP

Thief--Bonus for stealing, based on TARGET level.  about 1/6 the XP as for killing.

Bard--Bonus XP from groups (similar 

trashcan behavior that can be added to items to destroy unwanted items.
the arrest behavior
gen-wizard player editor
property to force an object to decay once worn/picked up
viewer/editor for items/mobs worldwide
SPECULATE skill to determine what resources are available in a given area.
mime behavior: A MOB will mimic any social that you do.
pillow social to start a pillow fight
aroma property. Exudes an odor to all adjacent rooms. Given to Undead for their stench. Given to Harem girls for their perfume. Parameter would be the emitted aroma description, and a Min/Max/Chance of message being created.
cause stink spell. Also radiates from room.
new social= smurf
new items to add to the CARVE list and the SCULPT list Toy,Door, Wall, Chop Sticks, Bookshelf, Desk, Ladder, Steps, Fountain, Podium,Bridge, Coffin/sarcophogus,
the Artisan is created, players can start building their houses at high enough levels, in appropriate areas.
Steps would allow him to build up or down. Roofs and floors are free. Each new room requires 3 new walls before you can expand it further.


MONK.  Master of unarmed/unarmored combat.  Get's defense bonus from WISDOM similar to a thief.  PRIME ATT: WIS and DEX (22 ea).  Gets faster attacks than a fighter, damage increases ONLY with unarmed similar to a fighter, Immunities similar to a paladin, except faster.  Also gains elemental resistances, similar to the resist spells.  Get's MEDITATION.

ARTISAN:  Master of all the common skills.  Gets a bonus of 5 EXTRA RANDOM common skills at 1st level.  GAINS a common skill every level. (We would want to distribute them out over the 1st 10 levels).  It is possible that the ARTISAN will GAIN a skill that he already took.  Could be a problem writing that code.  ARTISANS have a special ability to DECORATE.  This would allow any item that they want to become a permenant item in that room.  The item has a REJUV rate of 999999 or something silly like that, so it will be rejuved anytime you do a reboot, but at almost no other time.  They would also need the TRADE command, allowing players a safe trade of items.  TRADE HELM 1000.  <to other player> DO YOU AGREE TO GIVE 1000 FOR THE BLACK HELM (y/N)?  The ARTISAN would have prime attributes of WIS and CHA. (They need to be charming to sell their goods, they really need the WIS to get the practices.)  ARTISANS would have a few combat abilities (because they may need to hunt, forage, mine and chop through a few monsters to get their goods.)  Basically looking like a bard for combat abilities.  Heck, give them a couple of BARDIC SONGS to qualify for (just city based ones, though.)  ARTISANS should be able to get the SCROLL, CLARIFY SCROLL, ENCHANT ARMOR, and ENCHANT WEAPON spells at equal level or lower to a MAGE.  I would love it if they could get CURE LIGHT WOUNDS without being able to pray (so that they could put it in a potion or on a scroll) as well as a few other simple prayers and spells.


Resources with special Properties.  Meat that makes you sick.  Bread that heals, etc.

'Prompt <%*>' where the %* are the various variables you may set yourself.

        %h :  Display your current hits
        %H :  Display your maximum hits
        %m :  Display your current mana
        %M :  Display your maximum mana
        %v :  Display your current moves
        %V :  Display your maximum moves
        %x :  Display your current experience
        %g :  Display your gold held
        %a :  Display your alignment in numbers (above level 10)
	%A :  Display your alignment as text
	%i :  Display the number of items you are carrying
	%I :  Display the number of items you can carry
        %r :  Display the room name you are in
        %R :  Display the vnum you are in (IMMORTAL ONLY)
        %z :  Display the area name you are in (IMMORTAL ONLY)
        %T :  Display name of person under attack
        %t :  Display state of person under attack
        %E :  Display name of person you are fighting
	%e :  Display state of person you are fighting
	%B :  Go to a new line

"config" options

    AutoExit - You automatically see exits.
    AutoLoot - You automatically loot corpses.
    AutoSac  - You automatically sacrifice corpses.
    AutoVis  - You may go visible through communication commands.
    Blank    - You have a blank line before your prompt.
    Brief    - You see brief descriptions only.
    Client   - You are connecting to Turf via a client.
    Colour   - You see colour.
    Combine  - You see object lists in combined format.
    HiTells  - You get highlighting on tells to you.
    Mccp     - You use Mud Client Compression Protocol.
    NoRecall - You will not recall if link-dead during combat.
    Prompt   - You have a prompt.
    Quiet    - You block tells and channel communication.
    Shop     - You run a player store.
    Snoop    - You may be snooped by the supremes or higher
    Summon   - You can be summoned people outside your clan and group.
    TelnetGA - You receive a telnet GA sequence.
    Visit    - Your home can be visited by other players.

CoffeeMUD suggestions

Properties:
1)	Waypoints—A Land Based auto-travelling system.  Any area that has a Prop_WayPoint can be accessed from another Prop_WayPoint Area, provided the character has the TRAVELLER skill, and has learned each of those way points.  The computer will determine (approx) the shortest route from WayPoint A to WayPoint B.  If the path becomes blocked or someone attacks the TRAVELLER, then the traveling stops in that room.  Note: You can only initiate the TRAVELLER skill from a WayPoint.
2)	Seapoints—A sea based auto-travelling system.
3)	Ambusher—This gives the MOB an aggressive attitude, with the hide and backstab skills.  Ambushers may have a delay on them, a number of ticks before they come out of hiding and attack.
4)	DIETY—This just gives a MOB a chosen Diety.  Characters may select a diety at any given time, but it costs 100 XP to change deities.
5)	ReligiousHelper—Aids other MOBs of given religion
6)	Nonconvertable—MOB won’t accept another religion.


Skills
1)	TRAVELLER: this skill allows a character to travel from a waypoint he is familiar with to a waypoint he is familiar with, by land.  A character can learn a new waypoint by the command GAIN WAYPOINT at a way point.  This command calls on the character’s TRAVELLER skill, and will add it to a list of waypoints stored with the character.  The character can see what waypoints they know (Listing both LAND and SEA waypoints) by typing in the command WAYPOINTS.
2)	WRITE LANGUAGE:  Similar to read language.  Type in Write Dwarven to start writing in dwarven.  From that point on, all language will be written in Dwarven.
3)	NAVIGATION:  This is the sea-based version of Traveller.
4)	IMPROVED TURNING:  Affects your bonus to Turn or control.  Don’t give this to anyone yet, but specialty clerics will need to have access to it.
5)	* ENHANCEMENT, Where the * stands for a school of magic.  Makes spells of this nature upto twice as effective (doubling damage dealt, effect, ect.)
6)	* EXTENSION, Where * is a school of magic, makes all spells cast from that school last up to twice as long.
7)	* RESISTANCE, Where * is a school of magic, adds resistance to all harmful spells from that school.
8)	* SPECIALIZATION, Where * is a school of magic, makes all spells from that school more difficult to resist.
9)	CONVERT:  A Cleric may convert a character to his Diety.  It will ask a confirmation from the other character.  Cleric gains 25 XP for each conversion.  A Cleric MAY attempt to convert MOBs, and get that XP.  A Cleric loses 25 XP for killing a MOB of his religion.
10)	 Weapon Designer:  Allows a character to make a blueprint for making a weapon of unique qualities.  (Allows them to create a GenWeapon, under 1 set formula.)  When trying to design the weapon, they list the qualities it should have.  		IE:  DESIGN sword Qualish Dam=5 hp=200 metal att=+1.  The Computer would then figure out the WEIGHT and COST based on our formulas.  Alternatively, the designer could add in a WEIGHT factor, and then the COST would be determined.  Any field can be left blank, to be filled in either randomly or by default.  The end result would be a piece of paper (part of the required inventory to create) that would allow someone to create that item with the appropriate creation feat.
11)	Armor Designer.  As above.
12)	 Clothing Designer.  As above.
13)	 Boat Designer.  As above.
14)	 Furniture Designer.  As above.
15)	 Recipe Designer.  As above.  Can work spells into the recipe (like alchemist.)
16)	 Jewelry Designer.  As above.
17)	 Cover.  This is a defensive skill that improves a character’s AC vs all ranged attacks.
18)	 Sniper.  This allows a character to make a single ranged attack from a hidden position without entering combat.  After the shot, combat is ended, as is the Hide.
19)	 * slayer.  Where * is the name of a race.

Spells (Chants, Songs, Prayers)
1)	Contingency: caster makes a contingency statement (HP<x, MANA<x, MOVE<x, COMBAT START, COMBAT END, x ENTERS [the room]) and then the spell to cast upon that contingency (TELEPORT HOME, STONESKIN, etc)
2)	Sermon:  (Bard/Cleric) takes a lot of time and mana to cast, then acts like a mass follow for a short time.  (The MOBs, if they haven’t been provoked, will follow the cleric/bard for a short while.  After that while, they will RECALL to their starting location (or just destroy and refresh?))
3)	Offering: A cleric may sacrifice money to their deity.  Doing so restores X/10 Mana points.
4)	COUPDEGRACE:  A fighter, or high level thief, may attempt a Coup de Grace against a tripped, whomped or sleeping opponent.  They get to do MAX damage as if a BACKSTAB where performed (if they have backstab).  This is the only special effect (instant max damage against fallen foe).  I realize that people already take more damage when fallen, which is what makes this skill particularly deadly.
5)	Analyze Dwoemer: Improved Identify that gives material type, item type (Sword, flail, etc) but not value.

Modifications:
1)	Double the damage on all Ranged Weapons to make them more deadly.
2)	Double the damage of any spell that can not be cast at range 0.
3)	Color category for all items.
4)	make size important for weapons.  Characters can hold items of (Char Size/2) in one hand, and (2*Char size) in 2 hands.  Weapon range for melee combat is 	(0-70)=0; (71-140)=1; (140+)=2.
5)	When Underwater, all slashing and Bludgeoning damage is reduced by a factor of 3, after all other modifiers for damage have been calculated.
6)	When Underwater, movement is expended at 2* the rate.  If you run out of movement on water, you suffer a -50% to your swim check.
7)	
